# Classes And Objects
- In kotlin class can be declared as name class
- All classes in kotlin are by default final
- This means, you can not extend such classes
- Use open keyword before class to make it mutable/ extendable
- there are 2 types of constructor in class in kotlin
- Primary and secondary constructor
- Primary constructor can not contain any additional code
- Secondary constructor can contain additional code.
- For initialization, we can use init block in kotlin inside class.
```
    class Person { /*...*/ }
```
- Class can be empty
- class Empty

## Constructor
- A class in Kotlin can have a primary constructor and one or more secondary constructors. The primary constructor is a part of the class header, and it goes after the class name and optional type parameters.
```
    class Person constructor(firstName: String) { /*...*/ }
```
- If the primary constructor does not have any annotations or visibility modifiers, the constructor keyword can be omitted:
```
    class Person(firstName: String) { /*...*/ }
```
- The primary constructor cannot contain any code. Initialization code can be placed in initializer blocks prefixed with the init keyword.
- You can use trailing comma when declare class properties
```
    class Person(
        val firstName: String,
        val lastName: String,
        var age: Int, // trailing comma
    ) { /*...*/ }
```
- You can declare default values to constructor parameters.
```
    class Person(val firstName: String, val lastName: String, var isEmployed: Boolean = true)
```
- You can declare a constructor as private.
```
    class DontCreateMe private constructor () { /*...*/ }
```
## Class members
- Classes can contain:
- Constructors and initializer blocks
- Functions
- Properties
- Nested and inner classes
- Object declarations

## Inheritance
- All classes in Kotlin have a common superclass, Any, which is the default superclass for a class with no supertypes declared:
- Any has three methods: equals(), hashCode(), and toString(). Thus, these methods are defined for all Kotlin classes.
- By default, Kotlin classes are final – they can’t be inherited. To make a class inheritable, mark it with the open keyword:
```
    open class Base // Class is open for inheritance
```

```
    class MyView : View {
        constructor(ctx: Context) : super(ctx)

        constructor(ctx: Context, attrs: AttributeSet) : super(ctx, attrs)
    }
```
## Overriding Methods
```
    open class Shape {
        open fun draw() { /*...*/ }
        fun fill() { /*...*/ }
    }

    class Circle() : Shape() {
        override fun draw() { /*...*/ }
    }
```
## Overriding properties
-
```
    open class Shape {
        open val vertexCount: Int = 0
    }

    class Rectangle : Shape() {
        override val vertexCount = 4
    }
```
## Derived class initialization order
- During the construction of a new instance of a derived class, the base class initialization is done as the first step (preceded only by evaluation of the arguments for the base class constructor), which means that it happens before the initialization logic of the derived class is run.
```
    open class Base(val name: String) {

        init { println("Initializing a base class") }

        open val size: Int =
            name.length.also { println("Initializing size in the base class: $it") }
    }

    class Derived(
        name: String,
        val lastName: String,
    ) : Base(name.replaceFirstChar { it.uppercase() }.also { println("Argument for the base class: $it") }) {

        init { println("Initializing a derived class") }

        override val size: Int =
            (super.size + lastName.length).also { println("Initializing size in the derived class: $it") }
    }
```
- This means that when the base class constructor is executed, the properties declared or overridden in the derived class have not yet been initialized.
- Using any of those properties in the base class initialization logic (either directly or indirectly through another overridden open member implementation) may lead to incorrect behavior or a runtime failure.
- When designing a base class, you should therefore avoid using open members in the constructors, property initializers, or init blocks.
## Calling the superclass implementation
- By using **super** keyword, we call call the super class properties
- like this
```
    open class Rectangle {
        open fun draw() { println("Drawing a rectangle") }
        val borderColor: String get() = "black"
    }

    class FilledRectangle : Rectangle() {
        override fun draw() {
            super.draw()
            println("Filling the rectangle")
        }

        val fillColor: String get() = super.borderColor
    }
```
- Inside an inner class, accessing the superclass of the outer class is done using the super keyword qualified with the outer class name: super@Outer
```
    class FilledRectangle: Rectangle() {
        override fun draw() {
            val filler = Filler()
            filler.drawAndFill()
        }

        inner class Filler {
            fun fill() { println("Filling") }
            fun drawAndFill() {
                super@FilledRectangle.draw() // Calls Rectangle's implementation of draw()
                fill()
                println("Drawn a filled rectangle with color ${super@FilledRectangle.borderColor}") // Uses Rectangle's implementation of borderColor's get()
            }
        }
    }
```
## Overriding rules
- if a class inherits multiple implementations of the same member from its immediate superclasses, it must override this member and provide its own implementation (perhaps, using one of the inherited ones).
```
    open class Rectangle {
        open fun draw() { /* ... */ }
    }

    interface Polygon {
        fun draw() { /* ... */ } // interface members are 'open' by default
    }

    class Square() : Rectangle(), Polygon {
        // The compiler requires draw() to be overridden:
        override fun draw() {
            super<Rectangle>.draw() // call to Rectangle.draw()
            super<Polygon>.draw() // call to Polygon.draw()
        }
    }
```
## Declaring properties
- You can either declare class properties as mutable or immutable using var and val keyword
- By default all the getters and setters methods are provided internally
- If you want to define custom setter and getter, you can do like this
```
var stringRepresentation: String
    get() = this.toString()
    set(value) {
        setDataFromString(value) // parses the string and assigns values to other properties
    }
```
- If you want to define the visibility of a property, or add annotatin for that
```
    var setterVisibility: String = "abc"
        private set // the setter is private and has the default implementation

    var setterWithAnnotation: Any? = null
        @Inject set // annotate the setter with Inject
```
## Backing fields
- You can access the values using field name
```
var counter = 0 // the initializer assigns the backing field directly
    set(value) {
        if (value >= 0)
            field = value
            // counter = value // ERROR StackOverflow: Using actual name 'counter' would make setter recursive
    }
```
## Compile-time constants
- using const val

## late initialize properties
- lateinit
- Checking whether a lateinit var is initialized
- To check whether a lateinit var has already been initialized, use .isInitialized on the reference to that property:
```
    if (foo::bar.isInitialized) {
        println(foo.bar)
    }
```
## Interface
- Interfaces in Kotlin can contain declarations of abstract methods, as well as method implementations.
- What makes them different from abstract classes is that interfaces cannot store a state.
- They can have properties, but these need to be abstract or provide accessor implementations.
```
interface MyInterface {
    fun bar()
    fun foo() {
      // optional body
    }
}
```
## Properties in interfaces
- You can declare properties in interfaces.
- A property declared in an interface can either be abstract or provide implementations for accessors.
- Properties declared in interfaces can't have backing fields, and therefore accessors declared in interfaces can't reference them:
```
interface MyInterface {
    val prop: Int // abstract

    val propertyWithImplementation: String
        get() = "foo"

    fun foo() {
        print(prop)
    }
}

class Child : MyInterface {
    override val prop: Int = 29
}
```
## Interfaces Inheritance
- An interface can derive from other interfaces, meaning it can both provide implementations for their members and declare new functions and properties.
- Quite naturally, classes implementing such an interface are only required to define the missing implementations:
```
interface Named {
    val name: String
}

interface Person : Named {
    val firstName: String
    val lastName: String

    override val name: String get() = "$firstName $lastName"
}

data class Employee(
    // implementing 'name' is not required
    override val firstName: String,
    override val lastName: String,
    val position: Position
) : Person
```

## Functional Interface
- An interface with only one abstract method is called a functional interface, or a Single Abstract Method (SAM) interface.
- The functional interface can have several non-abstract members but only one abstract member.
- To declare a functional interface in Kotlin, use the fun modifier.
```
  fun interface KRunnable {
     fun invoke()
  }
```
## Abstract classes
- A class may be declared abstract, along with some or all of its members.
- An abstract member does not have an implementation in its class.
- You don't need to annotate abstract classes or functions with open

## Visibility Modifier
- **private** it will only be visible inside the file that contains the declaration.
- **protected** modifier is not available for top-level declarations.
- **internal** it will be visible everywhere in the same module.
- **public**  is used by default in kotlin, which means that your declarations will be visible everywhere.

## Extension Function
- Kotlin provides the ability to extend a class with new functionality without having to inherit from the class or use design patterns such as Decorator.
- This is done via special declarations called extensions.
- For example, you can write new functions for a class from a third-party library that you can't modify
- Look at the example below
```
fun Int.isEven(){
    return this%2 == 0
}

val is7Even = 7.isEven()

```
## Data Class
- It's main purpose to hold data like Java Pojo Classes
- But we can add extra functionality or utility methods to it.
- By default below methods are implemented internally
    - equals()/hashCode() pair
    - toString() of the form "User(name=John, age=42)"
    - componentN() functions corresponding to the properties in their order of declaration.
    - copy() function (see below).
- **Important Note About data classes**
- The primary constructor needs to have at least one parameter.
- All primary constructor parameters need to be marked as val or var.
- Data classes cannot be abstract, open, sealed, or inner.

## Properties declared in class body
- If a property is declared inside data class body, then
```
data class Person(val name: String) {
    var age: Int = 0
}
```
- Only the name property name will be in toString and hashcode, getter setter
- age property will not be participate in any default implementation in data class.
## Copy data class
- You can copy an object with change in one property.
```
val jack = User(name = "Jack", age = 1)
val olderJack = jack.copy(age = 2)
```
- IN above age will be change and everything else remain like object jack
## Destructuring Data class
```
val jane = User("Jane", 35)
val (name, age) = jane
```
## Delegation Properties
- Lazy properties: the value is computed only on first access.
- Observable properties: listeners are notified about changes to this property.
- Storing properties in a map instead of a separate field for each property.
```
class Example {
    var p: String by Delegate()
}
```
## lazy delegates
```
val lazyValue: String by lazy {
    println("computed!")
    "Hello"
}
```
## Observable Delegates
```
class User {
    var name: String by Delegates.observable("<no name>") {
        prop, old, new ->
        println("$old -> $new")
    }
}

fun main() {
    val user = User()
    user.name = "first"
    user.name = "second"
}
```
- **NOTE : For more details follow : https://kotlinlang.org/docs/delegated-properties.html**

## Type aliases
- Type aliases provide alternative names for existing types.
- If the type name is too long you can introduce a different shorter name and use the new one instead.
```
class A {
    inner class Inner
}
class B {
    inner class Inner
}

typealias AInner = A.Inner
typealias BInner = B.Inner
```


