# Object
- It is a basic unit of Object-Oriented Programming and represents real life entities. 
- A typical Java program creates many objects, which as you know, interact by invoking methods. An object consists of :
- **State:** It is represented by attributes of an object. It also reflects the properties of an object.
- **Behavior:** It is represented by methods of an object. It also reflects the response of an object with other objects.
- **Identity:** It gives a unique name to an object and enables one object to interact with other objects.
- Example of an object: dog
- A dog's state/ attributes are -> Age, color, breed
- A dog's Behaviour are -> Bark
- A Dog's Identity is :  Name of the dog

- Objects can be created using below methods
- new keyword
```
Dog dog1 = new Dog();
```
- Class.forname
```
Test obj = (Test)Class.forName("com.p1.Test").newInstance();
```
- Using Clone method
```
Test t1 = new Test();
// creating clone of above object
Test t2 = (Test)t1.clone();
```

## Object default methods
- **public final Class getClass()** ->	returns the Class object of this object. The class can further be used to get the metadata of this class.
- **public int hashCode()** ->	returns the hashcode number for this object.
- **public boolean equals(Object obj)** ->	compares the given object to this object.
- **protected Object clone() throws CloneNotSupportedException** ->	creates and returns the exact copy (clone) of this object.
- **public String toString()** ->	returns the string representation of this object.
- **public final void notify()** ->	wakes up single thread, waiting on this object's monitor.
- **public final void notifyAll()** ->	wakes up all the threads, waiting on this object's monitor.
- **public final void wait(long timeout)throws InterruptedException** ->	causes the current thread to wait for the specified milliseconds, until another thread notifies (invokes notify() or notifyAll() method).
- **public final void wait(long timeout,int nanos)throws InterruptedException** ->	causes the current thread to wait for the specified milliseconds and nanoseconds, until another thread notifies (invokes notify() or notifyAll() method).
- **public final void wait()throws InterruptedException** ->	causes the current thread to wait, until another thread notifies (invokes notify() or notifyAll() method).
- **protected void finalize()throws Throwable** ->	is invoked by the garbage collector before object is being garbage collected.

## Hashcode
- Method.hashCode() method returns the hash code for the Method class object.
- It returns Integer value
- The hashcode returned is computed by exclusive-or operation on the hashcodes for the method’s declaring class name and the method’s name.
- The hashcode is always the same if the object does not change. 
- Hashcode is a unique code generated by the JVM at time of object creation.
- It can be used to perform some operation on hashing related algorithms like collectionsExample.hashtable, hashmap etc. 
- An object can also be searched with this unique code.
- **The process of assigning a unique value to an object or attribute using an algorithm, which enables quicker access, is known as hashing**
- If 2 object have same hashcode, then it will return false if we compare using equals or ==
- == is meant to reference comparison
- equals meant to content comparison.
- **NOTE**
- A mixture of mathematical and logical operations enables us to write efficient hashCode in Java.
- Every object in Java inherits the hashCode() and equals() method.
- While working with hashCode in Java we have to keep the following things in mind-
- Different hashcodes should be generated for unequal objects when we use the hashing algorithm.
- The hashCode method should be consistent in its implementation of the equals() function.

## Hashing
- The hash function is a key-value mapping function. 
- When two or more keys are mapped to the same value using these hashing methods, there exists duplicate values. 
- The use of chain hashing prevents collisions. 
- Each hash table cell should lead to a linked list of entries that have the same hash function value. 

### Equal and Hashcode Interview Questions
- https://javarevisited.blogspot.com/2013/08/10-equals-and-hashcode-interview.html
