# Functions and Lambda

## Default argument function

```
    fun read(
        b: ByteArray,
        off: Int = 0,
        len: Int = b.size,
    ) { /*...*/ }
```

## Named Arguments

- while calling the function you should define the parameter name like this

```
    fun reformat(
        str: String,
        normalizeCase: Boolean = true,
        upperCaseFirstLetter: Boolean = true,
        divideByCamelHumps: Boolean = false,
        wordSeparator: Char = ' ',
    ) { /*...*/ }
```

- While calling

```
    reformat(
        "String!",
        false,
        upperCaseFirstLetter = false,
        divideByCamelHumps = true,
        '_'
    )
```

## Unit returning function

```
fun printHello(name: String?): Unit {
    if (name != null)
        println("Hello $name")
    else
        println("Hi there!")
    // `return Unit` or `return` is optional
}
```

- You can omit the unit keyword

## Single-expression functions﻿

```
fun double(x: Int): Int = x * 2
or
fun double(x: Int) = x * 2
```

## Variable number of arguments (varargs)

- You can mark a parameter of a function (usually the last one) with the vararg modifier:

```
fun <T> asList(vararg ts: T): List<T> {
    val result = ArrayList<T>()
    for (t in ts) // ts is an Array
        result.add(t)
    return result
}
```

- While calling

```
    val list = asList(1, 2, 3)
```

## Infix notation

- Functions marked with the infix keyword can also be called using the infix notation (omitting the dot and the
  parentheses for the call). Infix functions must meet the following requirements:
- They must be member functions or extension functions.
- They must have a single parameter.
- The parameter must not accept variable number of arguments and must have no default value.

```
infix fun Int.shl(x: Int): Int { ... }

// calling the function using the infix notation
1 shl 2

// is the same as
1.shl(2)
```

- Another example

```
class MyStringCollection {
    infix fun add(s: String) { /*...*/ }

    fun build() {
        this add "abc"   // Correct
        add("abc")       // Correct
        //add "abc"        // Incorrect: the receiver must be specified
    }
}
```

## Tail recursive function

- Kotlin supports a style of functional programming known as tail recursion.
- For some algorithms that would normally use loops, you can use a recursive function instead without the risk of stack
  overflow.
- When a function is marked with the tailrec modifier and meets the required formal conditions, the compiler optimizes
  out the recursion, leaving behind a fast and efficient loop based version instead:

```
    val eps = 1E-10 // "good enough", could be 10^-15

    tailrec fun findFixPoint(x6.collections: Double = 1.0): Double =
    if (Math.abs(x - Math.cos(x)) < eps) x else findFixPoint(Math.cos(x))
```

## Function types

- Kotlin uses function types, such as (Int) -> String, for declarations that deal with functions: val onClick: () ->
  Unit = ....
- All function types have a parenthesized list of parameter types and a return type:
- (A, B) -> C denotes a type that represents functions that take two arguments of types A and B and return a value of
  type C.
- The list of parameter types may be empty, as in () -> A. The Unit return type cannot be omitted.
- Function types can optionally have an additional receiver type, which is specified before the dot in the notation: the
  type A.(B) -> C represents functions that can be called on a receiver object A with a parameter B and return a value
  C.
- Function literals with receiver are often used along with these types.
- Suspending functions belong to a special kind of function type that have a suspend modifier in their notation, such as
  suspend () -> Unit or suspend A.(B) -> C.
- To specify that a function type is nullable, use parentheses as follows: ((Int, Int) -> Int)?.
- Function types can also be combined using parentheses: (Int) -> ((Int) -> Unit).

## Instantiating function types

- Use a code block within a function literal, in one of the following forms:
    - a lambda expression: { a, b -> a + b },
    - an anonymous function: fun(s: String): Int { return s.toIntOrNull() ?: 0 }
-

## Inline Function

# High-order functions and lambdas

- Kotlin's functions are first-class, which means they can be stored in variables and data structures, and can be passed
  as arguments to and returned from other higher-order functions.
- You can perform any operations on functions that are possible for other non-function values.
- To facilitate this, Kotlin, as a statically typed programming language, uses a family of function types to represent
  functions, and provides a set of specialized language constructs, such as lambda expressions.

## What is Higher-Order Function

- In Kotlin, a function can accept function as parameter or return a function, that function is known as Higher Order
  Function
- Instead of Integer, String or Array as a parameter to function, we will pass anonymous function or lambdas.
- Frequently, lambdas are passed as parameter in Kotlin functions for the convenience.

## What is Lambda

- Lambda is a function which has no name.
- Lambda is defined with a curly braces {} which takes variable as a parameter (if any) and body of function.
- The body of function is written after variable (if any) followed by -> operator.

## There are two types of lambda expression which can be passed-

- Lambda expression which return Unit
- Lambda expression which return any of the value integer,string etc

- For example

```
val lambdaWithNoReturnType = {
    println("This is a lambda expression  without returning any parameter")
}

fun main() {
    callingLambdaWithoutAnyReturnType(lambdaWithNoReturnType)
}

private fun higherOrderFunction(lambda: () -> Unit) {
    lambda()
}
```

- Let's understand the lambda expression calling
- **lambda** is local name for the receiving lambda parameter.
- **()** represents that the function does not accept any arguments.
- **Unit** represents that function does not return any value.
- In main function, we have invoked the higher-order function by passing the lambda expression as parameter.
- higherOrderFunction(lambda)

## Lambda with Parameter and return type

```
val lambdaWithParameterAndReturnType: (Int, Int) -> Int = { input1, input2 ->
    input1 + input2
}

private fun callingLambdaWithInputAndReturnType(lambda: (Int, Int) -> Int) {
    val input1 = 12
    val input2 = 13
    val result = lambda(input1, input2)
    println("Sum of $input1 & $input1 is $result")
}
```

- **(Int, Int) -> Int** Declaration of lambda with 2 integer input and one integer return type
- **lambda: (Int, Int) -> Int** -> This is the way how a higher order function call a lambda
- **val result = lambda(12, 23)** -> this is how result returned inside higher order function
- 

## Higher-order functions
- A higher-order function is a function that takes functions as parameters, or returns a function.

## :: operator in Kotlin
- :: in Kotlin is about meta-programming, including method references, property references and class literals.
- The double colon operator (::) is used to create a class or a function reference.
```
  fun main() {
      val c = String::class
      c.supertypes.forEach { e -> println(e) }
      val words = listOf("car", "forest", "Bible")
      println(words.map(String::length))
  }
```
